# Playlist Generation
Our approach to the automatic playlist generation problem is as follows: 

1. We train a regression model to predict the similarity score between two songs by using Million Song Dataset similarity scores as the output. Each similarity score is calculated from Last.fm between two songs, and for these two songs, we set as our input the differences in their characteristic measurements. Characteristic measurements include the audio features scraped from the Spotify Web API, including `energy` and `liveliness`.

2. We set a base playlist as a concatenated playlist composed of 50 songs, extracted from the Million Playlist database. Using our trained model, we calculate similarity scores for all of the songs from the Million Song dataset by feeding in the differences between each of the characteristic values for all of the songs in the dataset and the average characteristic values of the base playlist. In other words, our base playlist serves as our point of reference from which we calculate the similarity scores of the rest of the Million Songs dataset. We then find and rank the 100 songs that are most similar to the base playlist based on the similarity scores predicted by our model.

3. To take into account user context/information, we define combinations of characteristic features that would correspond to a specific emotion/location/purpose. Then from our 100 most similar songs ranked previously, we would pick the top 50 songs that has the smallest differences in characteristic values for the features selected for the corresponding moods from our target. For example, happy moods would correspond to high `energy`, `liveliness`, and `tempo`, or if the user context is studying, we may define the characteristic mix to be slow `tempo` and low `danceability`.

4. We want to ensure that our playlist includes variety instead of just selecting songs from the same artist or the same album, which could increase similarity. To do so, we limit the number of songs from the same album or artist to 2 in the top 100 most similar songs ranked in step 2 by randomly removing the extra songs and putting the next top-ranked song.
